[Instructor] The Adapter Pattern is one of those patterns
that really takes a moment to wrap your mind around
and it becomes even harder to find objects that fit in
to this pattern when you try to create them at will
because we tend to think of things that are similar,
but very similar, not loosely similar.
And the Adapter Pattern plays very well
in that loosely similar set.
Let's talk a little bit about how the Adapter Pattern
is used in Spring.
One if the most common use case or the one
that I've dealt with the most is with Spring integration.
Spring integration actually leverages Channel Adapters
throughout the entire operation for communication
with different systems.
It allows you to build a channel and within that channel
that have different communication in points without having
to manipulate the behavior of the channel.
So in Spring integration this is a great example
of very similar but not that similar objects
having shared methodology.
It's also used a lot with the internal operations of AspectJ
specifically during loading of the application context
and the weaving that takes place.
Now we're going to spend most of this time talking about
the pattern as it exist in Java and not necessarily
how it exist in Spring.
Now, the way that the pattern works is that you
have two different interfaces or two different objects
that share a very common operation.
Not identical always but it's a very common operation.
Now an adapter is a wrapper class that is created
and it holds an instance of one of the interfaces
while implementing the other interface
and that's how it adapts the two interfaces together.
And specifically, that shared operation
of the wrapper interface is implemented in such as way
that it calls the similarly shared operation
of the interface that is wrapped.
Hence, adapting the two.
That common path gives ton in the adapter
as opposed to trying to manipulate the interfaces themselves
to be something that they're not.
And often that's really where the power comes in.
Instead of trying to make things fit, you can use adapters
in certain code flows.
So why would we want to do this?
One of the most common use cases
that I originally was introduced to with this pattern
was when you were working with legacy or third party code,
that you need it to fit into your code.
Often, we didn't want to manipulate the legacy code
because of all the bugs that might introduce
or we didn't have the ability to manipulate
third party code so by leveraging adapters
we could use their code in our way that we needed to.
It also allows you to share functionality
on very disparate objects to reduce code.
So let's say that you have widgets and sprockets
and for all intends and purposes they are very different
until they run down the factory assembly line.
When they're coming down the assembly line,
they act very much the exact same
and that's where the adapters comes into play.
The adapter can treat those two objects as the same
during that path of code where they would be
on the assembly line.
And this will allow you to code two-way simple interface
in this routine workflow so that assembly line
is the routine workflow and everything that happens on it
we would code into the interface of the adapter.
And by doing this, we can reduce the code
which of course improves readability.
So how would we go about creating this?
We're going to start with two interfaces that share a method.
Now that method doesn't have to be exact.
And really it only needs to be logically similar.
There's no requirements on name being the same
or anything like that, though, often in examples
you will see the name being the exact same.
That's only for example purposes.
The key here is that logically they behave
in enough similar fashion that you can treat them
as the same in a certain block of code.
So once you have those two interfaces,
you're going to implement both of those
with your concrete classes.
You may have more than one concrete class
but at least need one in order to make this work.
Then you're going to create your wrapper class
and this wrapper class is the adapter.
You're going to pick one of the two interfaces
and usually it's the one that is more close
to what you're writing.
You're going to pick that one an you're going to implement it.
Then within that wrapper class, you're going to have a handle
to an instance of the other interface.
So what I mean by that is you're going to keep a handle
to the interface that you can then inject
a concrete class into it.
Then the implementation of the adapter itself
will have a method of that interface.
In that method, you call the similar method
on the instance interface.
That way, the behavior comes true with the interface
that we're exposing but ultimately the underlying interface
of the adapted class is what it is executed.
We're going to jump into this more as we get into code
and you can see what I'm talking about.